README.md, before:

# pandas-challenge


# Description of Files

Data Frame Images - a PNG file with each data frame result

PyCitySchools_starter: the file included in the Homework folder.  No work was done within this file.

District Summary: This file uses the provided CSV files to create a summary table describing the total schools, students and budget in the district.  It also describes the overall percent of students passing math, reading and both courses, including average scores in each.  The District Summary Dataframe will be the only display at the bottom of the notebook.

Schools Summary: This file uses the provided CSV files to create a school summary table.  This summary table describes the average scores for reading and math for each school.  It also provides the percent passing for reading and math, as well as the percent of students that pass both at each school.  Other data included in this table is the size of the school, the budget for the school and the budget per student per school.

Commit message:

Reading and Math Grade Level Summaries

README.md, after:

# Description of Files

Data Frame Images - a PNG file with each data frame result

PyCitySchools_starter: the file included in the Homework folder.  No work was done within this file.

District Summary: This file uses the provided CSV files to create a summary table describing the total schools, students and budget in the district.  It also describes the overall percent of students passing math, reading and both courses, including average scores in each.  The District Summary Dataframe will be the only display at the bottom of the notebook.

Schools Summary: This file uses the provided CSV files to create a school summary table.  This summary table describes the average scores for reading and math for each school.  It also provides the percent passing for reading and math, as well as the percent of students that pass both at each school.  Other data included in this table is the size of the school, the budget for the school and the budget per student per school.

Top and Bottom Performing Schools: This file uses the code from Schools Summary and then sorts the table into two new dataframes.  These new data frames show the top and bottom 5 schools in the district by overall passing percentage.

Scores Grouped: This file uses the code from Schools Summary to create the initial dataframe.  This data frame is sorted multiple times to show scores based on school budget, size or type.

READING Grade Level Summary: This file uses the student data csv to summarize the scores for the subject by grade level and school.

MATH Grade Level Summary: This file uses the student data csv to summarize the scores for the subject by grade level and school.
