# Background - PyCitySchools Challenge
Well done! Having spent years analyzing financial records for big banks, you've finally scratched your idealistic itch and joined the education sector. In your latest role, you've become the Chief Data Scientist for your city's school district. In this capacity, you'll be helping the  school board and mayor make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities.
As a first task, you've been asked to analyze the district-wide standardized test results. You'll be given access to every student's math and reading scores, as well as various information on the schools they attend. Your responsibility is to aggregate the data to and showcase obvious trends in school performance.

# Description of Files

Data Frame Images - a PNG file with each data frame result

PyCitySchools_starter: originally included in the homework download, this file was deleted.

District Summary: This file uses the provided CSV files to create a summary table describing the total schools, students and budget in the district.  It also describes the overall percent of students passing math, reading and both courses, including average scores in each.  The District Summary Dataframe will be the only display at the bottom of the notebook.

Schools Summary: This file uses the provided CSV files to create a school summary table.  This summary table describes the average scores for reading and math for each school.  It also provides the percent passing for reading and math, as well as the percent of students that pass both at each school.  Other data included in this table is the size of the school, the budget for the school and the budget per student per school.

Top and Bottom Performing Schools: This file uses the code from Schools Summary and then sorts the table into two new dataframes.  These new data frames show the top and bottom 5 schools in the district by overall passing percentage.

Scores Grouped: This file uses the code from Schools Summary to create the initial dataframe.  This data frame is sorted multiple times to show scores based on school budget, size or type.

READING Grade Level Summary: This file uses the student data csv to summarize the scores for the subject by grade level and school.

MATH Grade Level Summary: This file uses the student data csv to summarize the scores for the subject by grade level and school.

# Observations

## Observation 1:
### Charter Schools are more successful that District Schools

The table produced from the Scores_By_Type_df shows that when the measure of success of the school is test scores, Charter schools are considerably more successful that District schools for this district.  This conclusion is based on the percent of students passing reading, math or both, rather than based on the average test scores.  While the average reading and math scores also agrees with the conclusion that Charter schools are more successful, there is not as dramatic a difference between the average scores for Charter and District as is evident when looking at the percent of students passing.  The average scores for reading and math in District schools are 80.97 and 76.97, respectively.  The average scores for reading and math in Charter schools are 83.90 and 83.47, respectively.  This appears to show that both Charter and District schools are comperable, but when you look at the percent of students passing, a different conclusion emerges.
       Overall, only 53 students for every 100 District students are passing both subjects, whereas 90 of 100 Charter students are passing both subjects. For both types of schools, Math appears to be the more challenging subject, with lower average scores at both types.  93 of 100 Charter students are passing Math and 66 of 100 District students are passing math.  For reading, almost 97% of Charter students passed where approximately 81% of Districts students passed.  These data tell us that for both types of students, a student is more likely to have difficulty passing math than reading.  In my experience in education, schools (since No Child Left Behind and Race to the Top were enacted) have spent more time and resources focusing on reading education.  For both schools, the work done for literacy is evident, but it is possibly at the expense of math education.  Another question to ask from this data is why are the Charter schools more successful than the District schools?  There are many possible answers to this one, and highly depended on other data in the district.  For example, if these Charter schools are merit-based entry, than it would make sense that they have such significantly higher passing rates.  It would also mean that these higher acheiving students are not available to help bring up averages in their zoned District school.  Another possibility is that the Charter schools are tuition based.  A family that could afford tuition to a charter school is likely to be able to afford additional help or experiences that would help raise their student's reading and math scores.  (This doesn't mean that families in District schools cannot provide the same opportunities.)
       If I were a parent deciding on where to sent my student to school based on this data, I would want them to attend a Charter school. However, there are significantly more variables to consider as the reasons why these Charter students had much higher passing rates, and comparing strictly based on the type of school does not give the full picture.

## Observation 2:
### There is not a correlation between higher per student spending and higher text scores - but be cautious with that conclusion!

 The most common thing to hear districts and educators citing as a reason for lack of performance is a lack of funding in the district.  While school funding is vitally important, the data from this district shows that there is NOT a correlation between the amount of money spent per student and the student's test scores.  In fact, according to the Score_By_Budget_df table, the exact opposite could be true.  This data frame breaks up per student spending into four categories.  The schools that have the smallest per student budgets have the highest overall passing rates.  The first two budget groups are $575 to $594 and $595 to $614 show a negligible difference in student passing rates and are the highest rates in the district.  Schools with these budgets average 90% of students passing both reading and math.  However, schools with the highest per student budget ($635 to $670) have only 58% of their students passing both subjects.
        Like the Charter versus District school discussion above, determining student and school success is considerably more nuanced that just one item like per student budget.  I would caution a conclusion based on this data alone as it could be possibly misleading.  The data appears to be from a single school year, rather than aggregate data over multiple years. There are several possible reasons why the budget for some schools is higher, yet seeing much less student success.  Schools that receive Title I funding have the potential to spend more per student that schools that do not receive that federal assistance.  However, since Title I funds are based on the number of students receiving Free and Reduced lunch in a particular school, it is also a relatively good indicator of the economic status of the zoned area for a particular school.  In general, schools that receive Title I funds have students that come from more challenging backgrounds and teachers face more challenges with bringing those students to grade level or beyond grade level.  This is a primary reason why most school success discussions are about the CHANGES year over year in student success.  When districts and states are determining whether or not schools are successful (and making decisions about how to handle unsuccessful schools) they look at the year to year growth of students overall.  Student data is aggregated and the amount of growth (say from 6th grade to 7th grade end-of-year tests) is measured.  This growth measure is a more reliable indicator of a school's overall success than student passing statistics from a single school year.  For schools with low passing rates, but higher budgets, it may take a few to several years for the data to show an impact based on the per student budget.
        
## Cautious Conclusion:

The data presented in these tables is from one year in a district.  A parent moving to the area, or interested in changing school zones may consider these data when making such decisions.  At this level, it appears that Charter schools, schools with smaller populations and smaller per student budgets are the best choice for student success.  For a district or state making decisions about resource distribution (example) in a district, a more thorough look through multiple years of the same type of data would be necessary to identify trends first. 
